The more I thought about it, the sadder
I got because I can't even say it to
strangers, much less my own husband or
family. And I realized I didn't trust
enough to give compliments and that they
would be received.
That's right. In this coaching session
that happened during one of our public
Q&As's, we meet a woman who's struggling
in her marriage and she sees that she's
having a hard time receiving compliments
and love. And as we dig, we find out
what the expansiveness underneath all of
that that she's avoiding.
So, just to get right to it, I had
marriage counseling this morning.
Oh, goodness.
And this topic came up that was talking
about giving and receiving compliments
and how how bad I am at it. Even
Are you bad at giving or bad at
receiving or both?
Both.
So, um
I really appreciate
your self-awareness in this. Yeah, I've
been working over the last two years to
become more self-aware. And then
you you really are not good at receiving
them. That's true. We've just
question.
Okay. Oh, yeah.
Let's try Let's try it again.
Okay.
I really appreciate your self-awareness.
Oh, and also the amount of care that
you're giving to working with your
relationship to not just do marriage
counseling, but then to show up here
immediately afterwards and talk about
the issue in front of all these people
as a way to show your love and
appreciation for your marriage.
That's really [__] cool.
Thank you.
And then I'm supposed to say, I
appreciate your
No, you're not supposed to do [__] No,
you're supposed to let it tickle you. If
you want to do if you want to put a
supposed to in there, you let it tickle
you.
Yeah.
Yeah. The thing that that's doing, just
to be clear, is that that there's
there's kind of two forms of ego.
There's the I'm so [__] good, and
then there's I'm bad at
and they both limit and they both get in
the way of relationship and connection.
And so, if you receive a compliment, it
literally just evaporates some of that
ego.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, again, I just really appreciate that
you're here for your marriage and
yourself.
Thanks for saying that.
Okay, where were we?
Yeah, I the more I thought about it, the
sadder I got because I can't even say it
to strangers, much less my own husband
or family. And I realized I didn't trust
enough to give compliments and that they
would be received.
That's right.
And so, how do I get past that? How do I
be okay with giving and receiving?
Okay, let's do it. I want you to give me
a compliment.
You must have listened to podcasts.
There must be something you can say that
is some sort of compliment that's
genuine.
I think that the work you're doing is
some of the most impactful I've ever
experienced and I tell everyone about
it. So, I really appreciate what you do.
You're just saying that. You're just
saying that.
No, I truly mean it.
I really do appreciate you.
So that moment I rejected your
compliment and you stayed in your open
heart.
Well, how did you do that?
Well, I knew I had to because I'm here
and you're going to make me.
That's how I do. That's how I do it,
too. That's how I do it, too. I like,
"Oh, I know I have to because it's going
to really [__] hurt if I don't."
Yeah. But but for different reasons. I
think that's part of what I've learned
this year is that
forcing myself to do stuff that I know
is uncomfortable, but like is going to
help me along,
but just trying to make it more natural
and not forced is where I'm at.
So here, check this out. Put your hands
together like this and then just fold
them together like that. And now do it
the other way.
And you notice how one is comfortable
and one is uncomfortable.
Mhm.
But it's the same thing,
right?
No force required.
It's just leaning into that feeling the
same way you lean into the compliment.
I just say that because the force slows
down the process.
Sure.
Yeah.
And what about receiving? Like my
husband is I told him he's like the
ultimate complimenttor. He's on the
other end of the spectrum.
Yeah.
And so he says all these really nice
things and I go like I did when we
started. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Okay.
Right. Yeah.
So what how do I
Yeah. So let's let's Yeah. So let's go
into the actual deeper level just right
below the compliment.
Um,
it feels like the whole relationship
with your husband has been him like
trying to get connection with you and
you being somewhat resistant.
How accurate is that?
100%.
Okay. So, see what it's like without any
shame to apologize to your husband for
making him chase you when all you really
want is that connection.
use his name, but no shame. Just like
fully
empowered.
Yeah,
Brad, I feel very sorry that you had to
continually chase me to get that
connection.
And what do you want?
I want the same thing.
And what do you want him to do when he's
when he's chasing and you're pulling
back? What what do you deeply most want
from him in that moment?
To keep coming at me to to save me
Yeah.
to save you from what?
Running away and not feeling the
connection.
And what what's the way that he can do
that that just immediately lets your
whole system relax?
It takes a lot. I'm I have a lot of
walls up, but um just really look me in
the eye and grab my hand very gently and
say, you know, I'm I'm here for you.
That sounds good.
Yeah.
So, here's the weird part.
It's like just look at the faces that
you can see and the thing. See if you
can see if anybody's actually not here
for you right now.
Maybe one. You might be able to find
one.
I can only see just a handful, so I
won't call anyone out. But yeah.
Right? Like that's the weird part is the
whole maybe not all but enough of the
world is wanting to be there for you.
The problem is it's the people who are
closest to me that haven't been there
for me.
Yeah, of course that's
always
these people are great. But yeah,
exactly. But but we're talking about
your husband.
Yeah.
What happens if you fully allow
instead of letting the compliment in?
What happens if you fully allow the fact
that your husband has always been there
for you?
Even if he's [__] up, he shows up the
next day there for you.
Like,
yeah.
How many years has he been chasing you
for connection?
22.
22 years. He's [__] shown up for you.
Yeah.
Let it all the way down. You've got it
like at your heart, but like all the Let
it all the way down.
Yeah.
That's the biggest [__] compliment
anybody could give you.
That's overwhelming.
Yeah.
It also means he sees something in you
that you don't see in yourself.
That's 100% accurate.
Yeah.
So, why don't we look at that part of
you?
He sees that like
caring, loving,
loyal.
Look at that. Self-criticism just kicked
in. Whoa. What just happened?
Yeah. Just don't always trust that it's
true.
It's not always true.
You have kids?
Yep.
Do you love your kids?
Very much.
Yeah. Give me one compliment about them
that you deeply feel.
They are some of the most empathetic and
caring kids I've ever met.
Is that always true?
No. They're both teenagers. So,
Right.
Yeah.
But mostly Yes. Yeah. Right. So, there's
always a way you can find the lack of
truth in a compliment.
Sure.
Even if there was a moment you weren't
loyal,
you've also stuck it out for 20some
years.
You also showed up for those kids so
that they're empathetic.
Yeah.
You also haven't run out the door
screaming, which you wanted to do at
least a dozen times a year in the early
days. Probably.
Sure.
So, let's take a moment to see what he
sees in you.
Just let it tickle you.
Yeah. And so you're starting to feel the
expansiveness like I just saw. I felt
Yeah.
Mhm.
That's the That's the scary thing.
The scary thing is that expansiveness
that you're feeling, that's only like 2%
of what's coming your way.
It's not bad.
Oh, it's [__] amazing, but it's
overwhelming.
Yeah, very much.
Yeah. And that when your the loved ones,
your mom or dad who taught you how to be
this more rigid thing, you chose to do
that to some degree because you were
really sensitive.
And when you open this up, all that
sensitivity starts coming back.
That's your birthright that was taken
from you and now you get it back.
No.
Yeah. So, see what it's like just to
feel it again.
That thing that he sees in you
that was there before your parents did
whatever they did or whoever did it.
Might have been buried but still feels
it all.
I mean, he's really the only one that's
truly seeing me, you know.
We're changing that. You're seeing
yourself. How about you seeing yourself?
That's what matters.
Yeah.
So, you said something to your husband.
You apologized. What's the apology you
have for yourself?
Um,
I'm sorry I held you back for so long to
just feeling the emotions
that you wanted to feel for a very long
time.
Yeah.
When you look back on the film, if when
you look back on this, you'll get to see
this moment where you're literally like
a little kid excited by the
you hold it back a little bit, but it's
there.
It is. It is scary,
but it's good.
Yeah, that's right.
[Music]
Yeah.
Thanks, Joe.
Pleasure.